She was beaten by her husband but strangers helped her divorce and find shelter…

Padmasri Manumari was forced by her husband to get an abortion in India. His abuse continued after they moved to Smyrna, Georgia. Padma was isolated from her family and  the outside world. She was threatened and beaten. Feeling trapped and full of despair, Padma pondered suicide but could not leave her son, Mohanish, alone in this world. The last time Padma was beaten she ran to her neighbors and called the police. Her husband was arrested.

Stranded in India, Padma was surprised when strangers opened doors for her. PADV, Raksha, Cascade House, and other shelters helped Padma and her son find shelter, safety and peace.

~~~

She almost lost both her children to domestic violence but NGOs helped her divorce and get custody

Anand was born into an affluent family, but her husband was abusive, forcing her to resign from her job. "It became a habit for him to beat me up." The thought of her children and societal pressures kept her silent.

During her pregnancy, he pushed her down the stairs and Anand "almost lost [her] child." She didn’t speak up because she "was scared and didn't want anyone to know about it. He made me feel it was my fault." 

10 years later, the turning point came when her five-year-old son stopped talking and had learning disabilities. Anand returned to her parents and filed a case with the Nanakpura police station. They and NGOs helped Anand get divorce and custody of her children. She wrote Woman of Elements, a collection of poem released by All India Women's Conference.

She was gang-raped at age 12, but she overcame it…
Dr. Sunitha Krishnan was a social worker since childhood. She would teach dance to mentally challenged children when she herself was just eight years old. She was gang-raped when she was 12. The horrific incident left her angry, but instead of lamenting over her fate, she started an anti-trafficking organization Prajwala which works with the police and other law enforcement agencies to fight commercial sexual exploitation. Through her organization, she is actively rescuing and rehabilitating victims of sex-trafficking into society. Krishnan was also recently awarded the prestigious 2014 Nelson Mandela-Graca Machel Innovation Awards on November 24 at Johannesburg, South Africa.

She was raped by a stranger and her husband stood by her…

Urmila, a Dalit woman who hails from a small village in Madhya Pradesh, was living a normal life with her husband and three kids when one day a man broke into her house when she was alone and raped her. She somehow managed to escape and went to the police station where no one filed her complaint till morning. She then went to Harijan’s police station, and after a few hours, her complaint was registered. Since then, her life completely changed. The society blamed her and the neighbors and community cut off all communication with her family. She decided to fight back, and with her husband’s support, she managed to stand tall even in the most difficult situations. The criminals pressurized her to take the police complaint back, they even beat up Urmila and her husband brutally, but she faced them bravely. Urmila is an inspiring example of how, no matter where you are and which community you belong to, you should never be afraid to raise your voice against wrong.

She was gang-raped and sent her perpetrators to jail…
The 20-year old construction labourer Sita was kidnapped, gang-raped and thrown on a railway track to die by a co-worker she had a small fight with. She became physically disabled and was abandoned by her own mother because she was no longer of any “use” to her in earning money. Instead of getting defeated by this harsh reality, Sita not only sent her violators to jail but also rebuilt her own life from scratch. Wheelchair ridden Sita did not shy away from filing a complaint against her mother too, who was abetting the criminals against her daughter. To give a new shape to her life, she joined a bridge school run by Prayas NGO, and with the help of her immense passion and will power, she managed to secure admission in class eight at the government-run Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV). Sita is an inspiration to all of us and proves that nothing can beat a strong willpower.

